.\" Manpage for rabo2ofx.py. 
.\" Author Guus Bonnema, github user gbonnema.
.TH rabo2ofx.py 1 "11 Feb 2019" "version 2.11"
.SH NAME
rabo2ofx.py - Convert Dutch Rabo csv files to ofx for GnuCash
.SH SYNOPSIS
rabo2ofx.py FILENAME
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program converts Dutch .csv files from the Rabo bank to OFX files 
for GnuCash or for HomeBank.
.SS Config

The program uses a config file that contains the account numbers 
with most important accounts first. An example config should have been
copied into your distribution. If not, the layout is simple:
.nf

[account]
account1 = nl89rabo999999
account2 = nl71rabo888888
.PP
Be careful to put the config in the directory from which you execute the program.
In future this might change,but at the moment different files could have different 
configurations, so the current directory is leading.

.SS Config processing GnuCash

The config was created to understand which accounts are owned. This started with
a requirement stemming from GnuCash that does not recognize an internal transfer
and registers the transaction twice. 

The order in config is significant: transactions from earlier accounts to later 
accounts are the only transactions that will make it into
the OFX generated file. The transactions from later accounts to earlier accouns will never
be generated. This prevents double transactions in GnuCash.

.SS No config for GnuCash

As an extra measure for GnuCash users, without config, should two accounts be in the 
same file, then any transfers *in the same file* will only generate the first of the two.
This gives a limited amount of protection. 

If the transfer is split over files, both transactions will be generated as OFX transactions 
creating double transactions. 

.SS Config processing HomeBank

HomeBank users are able to recognize internal transfers and mark them as such. For
HomeBank users all transactions from all accounts are generated irrespective of config. 

.SS Processing of booking code


    code | description            | OFX code
    -----|------------------------|---------------------
    ac   | acceptgiro             | 
    ba   | betaalautomaat         |
    bc   | betalen contactloos    |
    bg   | bankgiro opdracht      |
    cb   | crediteuren betaling   | 
    ck   | chipknip               |
    db   | diverse boekingen      |
    eb   | bedrijven euro-incasso |
    ei   | euro incasso           |
    fb   | finbox                 |
    ga   | geldautomaat euro      |
    gb   | geldautomaat vv        |
    id   | ideal                  |
    kh   | kashandeling           |
    ma   | machtiging             |
    sb   | salaris betaling       |
    tb   | eigen rekening         |
    sp   | spoedbetaling          |
    CR   | tegoed                 |
    D    | tekort                 |

    Currently the program assigns DEBIT or CREDIT as OFX code depending on the sign.
    These are generic codes, that will be replaced by specific codes somewhere in the
    future.

.SH BUGS
Rabo misuses a data field called 'datum' (=date) to place the Rabo processing 
date for consumers and the booking date for professional customers. Due to
this unfortunate choice, the program uses the interestdate to determine the 
bookingdate.
.PP
Should the Rabo ever change its policy to include both booking date and 
processingdate, I will change the program to use the booking date.
.SH AUTHOR
Guus Bonnema, contact me through github.com, user gbonnema, repo rabo2ofx.
